#  Credit  Card Financial Dashboard 
 ## ✨Project Overview 

 This project delivers a comprehensive analysis for Credit Card Transaction data and Credit Card Customer data using Power BI. It provides real-time insights and helps to monitor Key Performance Metrics and Trends more effectively. This Enables Stakeholders to make data-driven decision more accurately using the dashboard

 DATASET : Financial data

 ## 💠Steps Involved
 1.  #### Importing Data from SQL database:
 
   Importing data from an SQL database encompasses extraction, transformation, and loading, enabling seamless integration with other applications.
  * The process begins by extracting data from the SQL database.
  * In case of, Data Transformation and Loading (ETL): After extraction, the data is transformed to meet the requirements. This may involve cleaning, aggregating, or restructuring the data. Finally, the transformed data is loaded into the desired destination, such as visualization tool like Power BI or Tableau.

2. #### Data Processing and DAX Query:

* Data processing is the preparation and manipulation of raw data to make it usable for analysis. This can involve cleaning, filtering, transforming, and organizing the data.
* DAX (Data Analysis Expressions) is used to perform these manipulations and create calculations on top of the processed data.

3. #### Design Dashboard & Insights:
* It is about transforming data into clear, actionable information. It involves understanding user goals, choosing the right metrics, and presenting them visually to uncover trends and patterns 
* By utilizing a combination of interactive visualizations and clear design , the dashboard will provide stakeholders to make data-driven decision more accurately using the dashboard.

## 📊 Insights
* Overall Revenue is 57M 
* Revenue increased by 28.8%.
* Total Transaction Amount from December 24 to December 31 increased by 2.22%.
* Total Transaction Count from December 24 to December 31 increased by 1.74%.
* Total Interest generated is 8M.
* Total Transaction Amount is 46M.
* Male Customers are contribuing more in revenue 31M, female 26M.
* Blue & Silver credit card are contributing to 93% of overall transactions.
* TX, NY, & CA us contributing to 68%.
* Overall Activation rate is 57.5%.
* Overall Delinquent rate is 6.06%.
* Most of the Credi Card users are Graduates
* Majority of Credit Card Users are between Age Group 40-50.
* Revenue generated by Married Male is 16M and Female is 13M.
* High Income Group contributes majorly in Revenue, 23M by Male and 7M by Female.
* Highest Revenue generated by job is Businessman and its 18M.

## SUPPORT
Give ⭐ if you like this.
